listen so award season is upon us and
it's crazy to think how late into this
year we'll still be talking about last
year but
obviously we won't be forgetting
anything about 2020 anytime soon and i
think that includes a lot of the movies
that were released last year by
filmmakers who didn't leave us high and
dry and push back their features
and i think there were a lot of great
ones so to start off the awards season
we have the 30th annual
gotham awards let me explain now like i
said 2020 may have felt like a slow year
but there were a lot of movies that were
released around the world and
thanks to our sponsor literally thanks a
lot we were able to catch a lot that
were restricted
hey perhaps i could be of some
assistance
obviously this year's road to the oscars
got a little detour since the gothams
are in january
the golden globes won't be till february
28th
the rest of the big ones aren't until
march and the academy awards are until
april
25th but one thing's for sure there are
a lot of movies to appreciate
now last year the gothams were
practically the marriage story awards
since they swept everything and i agree
with my boy andres that
y'all are way too harsh on it i mean
besides your dancing this year was a
solid lineup with relic a family horror
we mentioned in our sundance coverage
about a missing grandmother in a haunted
home
the assistant for people who didn't like
promising young women which has a great
performance by julie garner as a
promising young film producer who works
as an assistant witnessing the abuse of
power that plagues that industry
but my two favorites out of the lineup
where never rarely sometimes always
which
boasts eliza hitman's masterful
direction as we follow two cousins on an
unexpected trip to new york
to find the support they wouldn't have
back home and first cow kelly reichardt
slow burn that i'll defend to the death
about two partners who start up a
business by stealing the only available
dairy in town
but obviously there can only be one
winner no land
now first off krista miliotti presented
this award and she's been having a
killer year because she's
hysterical in everything she's in so if
you were ever trapped in palm springs
with her
at least she'd keep you laughing however
the past few weeks
have been somewhat dramatic as the
winner was disputed when rudy giuliani
made a legal challenge
to the legitimacy of the voting process
claiming the 2004 film
super babies baby geniuses 2 starring
jon voigt and scott baio was
illegitimately excluded from
consideration as for nomed land
look this is gonna be the strong one
this whole award season like it's gonna
have the biggest campaign
and here it took best feature the best
audience award and i personally hope
that chloe gets a lot more directing
noms considering her
hybrid approach on mixing professional
and non-actors who played versions of
themselves
even having meetings at a planet in his
parking lot because they were always in
motion
personally i do wish the movie uh
covered 80
of what the book that it's based on
covered but its chances to go all the
way are strong
even though i'm still rooting for mean i
need to surprise
i have a lot of admiration for these
writers
and i also hate them now in terms of
best screenplay bad education was my
favorite out of the lineup by far
that's one of my favorite of the year we
did a whole video on this we even have a
whole interview with the director
so obviously it's the top of the top for
me first kyle follows that up which is
also in my top 10 and i think it's a
great script
that's the night i felt would have made
for a great podcast turns out that was
kind of the approach so obviously the
script is fantastic but surprisingly
there was a tie in this one between 14
which we shouted out
in our intercut midway best of of 2020
video last year about two friends who
grow over a decade
but in different directions and it's by
dan salad a critic turned filmmaker who
i'm really happy he's getting recognized
with this movie
along with 40 year old version holy [ __ ]
holy [ __ ] now this was one of my
favorites from sundance written
directed produced and starring ryder
blank as a playwright turned rapper who
had one of the best comedies of last
year
it's available on netflix now in terms
of breakthrough director my personal
favorite would have been carlo miraveya
davis for swallow which we made a whole
video on
i think it's absolutely fantastic and
one of my favorites of the year
there's also ryder blank who we just
said practically did everything for the
40 year old version but it was also cool
to see alex thompson get some
recognition for st
francis a movie that we really
recommended back in 2019 south by
southwest
festival as well as channing godfrey
people sundance feature miss juneteenth
but the winner was andrew patterson for
the vast of night which you can catch on
prime it was one of zack's favorites of
last year and
i gotta admit it's got one of the best
long takes in a movie that i've seen in
a long while
and a reminder that kevin durant had an
assist with this flick in fact that's
kind of how my camera crew came together
for the vast of night and so if kevin
durant
had been 100 happy in oklahoma city my
company never would have gotten
the job and then the budget for the vest
of night might not have been what it is
and so he has a very direct connection
to why we're all sitting here tonight
so in terms of docs
last year was a crazy year for this
lineup they had nominated our time
machine the story of a son trying to
immortalize his father's memories
before his dad's dementia worsens city
hall which showcases boston's government
as we follow the mayor and other public
servants during different tasks
which was kind of a theme in 2020 with
other similar films like
mayer which follows musa hadid as he
governs the city of ramallah
in the middle east and of course my
favorite city so reel which follows the
mayoral races of chicago while exploring
every ward in the city but what's cool
about city hall is that it's on pbs for
free
so if you're interested in catching all
four hours and 34 minutes
it's right there for you 76 days was
also nominated and this covers the first
wave of the virus and wuhan as told by
three directors
one of which remained anonymous in order
to not lose his job but when you look at
last year and how american factory won
the gotham and then went all the way
it's interesting to see that this year
we also had a tie again garrett
bradley's time which is showing on prime
was awarded and i believe it's going to
be one of the strongest ones
in this award season but fox rich's
decades-long story on a struggle to
appeal her husband's 60-year prison
sentence
yeah that's gonna be something that's
gonna be brought up in a lot of best of
the decade list when it all wraps
see everyone i don't see well okay thank
you so much
this is so strange they told me i won um
yeah a thousand cuts was also fantastic
and that's what tied with
it it breaks down the philippine
government and how they're able to
create their own ecosystem of
misinformation to bamboozle people
and they know how to spread it
exponentially it showcases how they try
to suppress
media and arrest reporters for you know
reporting and how these algorithms that
they're creating
don't even come from people inside that
country but other entities that are
practicing them in other countries to
then port them back to theirs when they
got everything worked out
they're dealing with a president who has
dancers at israelis this man has his own
steve wilko who's deciding to run for
senate
like his plan to protect the youth from
drugs is uh
to kill any youth who uses drugs
[Applause]
both explore the dangers that journalism
faces in this era of social media
and again this one's on pbs so it's dope
to have them accessible and not behind a
paywall because it's always ironic to
wonder why
lies are spreading and the truth isn't
when y'all are treating it like a
privilege
in terms of the best international
features we might have to make a whole
video on these for all the ones that
came out but
wolf walkers was a fantastic tale that i
really hope is able to win the best
animation because
even pixar had a go back to 2d in order
to compete with them
beanpole which is showing on movie i
thought was a fantastic flick along with
bakurao
which is playing on criterion martin
needing was a great movie and it was
even netflix's q the inaugural gotham
for best international feature award
goes to identifying features directed by
fernando valadez and produced by astrid
rendezvous
easily one of my favorites and when i
also cut at sundance uh the only
interesting thing i'll say about this
is that the movies should technically be
called non-identifying features
but they called it identifying features
it's a movie that some i find slow
there's a lot of shots that may just
look like
just bokeh shots but one of my favorite
movies of the year
by far and one that even seeing it or
press greeting
as soon as it ended clearly nobody got
what the message of the movie was
but i did i thought it was fantastic and
the other one i would recommend here is
also
i'm no longer here now really quick i
want to give a big shout out to our
sponsor surfshark especially as we just
covered the international features
because not only do they support this
channel but when it comes to streaming
movies you know they may not even be in
your area
one of the best parts about having a vpn
is the ability to bypass streaming
restrictions that limit you know
the world wide web so it's awesome to
see someone who has this mantra that
things shouldn't be behind borders so if
you wanted to catch the buzzworthy rocks
which is only on netflix uk
you can do it with a vpn sponge out of
water without crossing the pond a vpn if
you didn't want to get a knock at your
door for watching
then a vpn is a very handy tool on top
of that it comes with a seamless ad
blocker so you won't be tracked across
sites
extra security for when you hop on hot
spots a cool little tool called hack
lock to notify you whenever your
passwords have been compromised
and the best part is that it can be used
in all your devices indoors and outdoors
so if you're interested head over to
surfshark dot deal
let me explain and get 83 off when you
use the promo code let me explain
along with three months free so if you
wanted to catch up on all the oscar
contenders that may still not be in your
area
is the perfect time to do it so a big
shout out to sur shark for sponsoring
in terms of the television awards they
do one that's under 40 minutes and then
series that are over 40 minutes
but for the under 40 it was cool to see
dave uh be up there because i thought it
was a pretty funny show and
seeing a little dicky with a gotham nom
is riddle me that right
betty is the hbo adaptation of skate
kitchen which i thought was great
and proves that we're in that era where
it's no longer tv shows getting a movie
but movie's getting a tv show but
obviously the winner was going to be i
may destroy you
i've caught like 750 movies this past
year so this is one of the
many series that i have in my backlog
waiting to just be binged but zach named
it as his number one show so i cannot
wait to experience
in terms of the over 40 obviously
watchmen um
i think he's gotten a lot of price i'll
just say how is devs not nominated in
this
for breakthrough actor looking at last
year's it was cool to see taylor russell
win because you know we're still
thinking about waves but my pick would
have been jonathan majors because this
man
had an incredible follow-up year jasmine
batchelor was also nominated for the
surrogate which i think is a very
interesting movie that tackles
a lot of different subjects and it
sticks to its guns even if it's gonna
peeve some people
orion lee for first car who was a true
supporting role
like to open a hotel someday
with wild huckleberry pies
it's nice saint francis also got another
mention for kelly sullivan's performance
but my top two from these noms
would have easily been sidney flanagan
for never rarely sometimes always which
yeah the awards for whatever reason
decided to play the climax of the movie
as their clip for this but
it is on hbo max it's one of the best of
the year and i highly recommend it
but look kingsley benadir easily one of
the standouts for one night in miami i
personally think it's one of the best
casts
and this man killed it i do want to say
some honorable mentions here because i
have been
rooting for this person completely and
that's helena zengel for system crasher
i truly think she's going to be a star
i'm just putting it right here she
deserved a nomination as well
[Music]
in terms of the tributes we had a couple
you know ryan murphy got a tribute for
uh
uploading to netflix there was an nyc
award that went to jeffrey wright who is
super underrated in my opinion like
he gets recognized but not enough and i
know that a lot of people dismiss the
recent netflix movie that he had but
i didn't think it was that bad it came
from the writer of black panther and
a lot of people like the sun so i don't
see why i don't like that one steve
mcqueen got a tribute which was
presented by lupita and that man
honestly deserved it five movies in one
year
and the chadwick tribute was a stand-up
it's the one speech of the night that i
recommend you watch after this video and
i mean honestly stop the video right now
and go watch it cause i i was holding
back tears along with his wife as she
spoke
viola davis also received a tribute but
not a nomination which is
interesting but it was still a stack
list you know yao jung yoon as the
mountain dew drinking grandma for me
nadi was fantastic
francis mcdormand who acted alongside
real life nomads that she traveled the
states did an incredible job
kerry [ __ ] who personally i think gave
one of the top three performances in the
nest as she embodies shawn durkin's
script based on his childhood
and jesse buckley from i'm thinking of
it best access goes to
nicole buhari and miss june team
oh my god
okay um
why for best actor it was nice to see
john magaro and jesse plemmons for
first cow and i'm thinking of ending
things get some respect thrown their way
but in my opinion you know just overall
anthony hopkins who i guess wasn't
eligible that might give the best
performance
of the year i'm still rooting for
chadwick i'm rooting for lindo steven
yun
but damn i didn't know how much i loved
hearing best actor
goes to riz ahmed for the sound of metal
in my opinion this man better get more
nominations in the coming months
i want to see him win because i want to
hear those speeches i don't know how
many people know this but he is also a
rapper and this man was ready to drop
some bars
surrender to the dance of uncertainty
and uh
it feels like a very wobbly time but if
we can all wobble together maybe
maybe we might find ourselves dancing
overall i thought it was a solid lineup
and
it's a show that definitely had its
glitches but recognized some amazing
films
and i think it's going to be interesting
not just to see a season full of awards
but how they're gonna be presented with
the internet now being the biggest state
that said best ensemble went to chicago
seven when one night was right there
thank you guys for checking out this
video i'm curious to know your thoughts
down below in the comment section i'm
always curious to
hear your personal picks for best actors
screenplay picture because
as fun as it is covering these award
shows you know at the end of the day i
think we all just see them as promo
considering how these films do have
campaigns so
it's really just a spotlight you know
for these movies to shine a light on
them
and to recognize movies that many people
may not have on the radar but
i'm always curious to see what films
connected with people the most
especially around the world so
feel free to let me know your picks and
until next time don't forget to comment
like and subscribe
and we'll get bruce willis to wear a
mask